README.md, before:

# prattl

CLI tool for transcription

## Features

- Transcribe audio and output to stdout/json (supports multiple file input)
- Helps with drafting captions for your editing workflow

### Prattl manages its own python distribution

When you run `prattl prepare` prattl installs a python distribution specific to your OS to your system, This means you don't need to manage Python dependencies or risk corrupting your existing environments.
`prattl clean` will completely remove this distribution.

### Transcribing

Under the hood, prattl is using [distil-whisper](https://huggingface.co/distil-whisper/distil-large-v3), which runs locally on your system. The better your GPU, the faster the transcription, if you do not have a GPU, it will use your CPU. To create a transcription, use the command:

```zsh
prattl transcribe <filepath/to/audio.mp3>
```

You can provide multiple file paths, and prattl will transcribe all of them as a single batch. This means the efficiency increases with more files!

Upon completion, the output will be a JSON object. For instance, if you run:

```zsh
prattl transcribe test1.mp3 test2.mp3 test3.mp3
```

the output will be:

```json
{
  "test1.mp3": "test1.mp3's transcription",
  "test2.mp3": "test2.mp3's transcription",
  "test3.mp3": "test3.mp3's transcription"
}
```

## OS/CPU Architecture Support

- windows/386
- windows/amd64
- darwin/arm64
- darwin/amd64
- linux-gnu/arm64
- linux-gnu/amd64

> [!NOTE]
> CUDA architecture GPUs can take advantage of GPU acceleration for transcription

<!-- > **_NOTE:_** CUDA architecture GPUs can take advantage of GPU acceleration for transcription -->

## Prerequisites

[go](https://go.dev/) installed and included in `$PATH`

[ffmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) installed and included in `$PATH`

## Build Locally

1. Clone repository
2. cd into the cloned repository
3. Either run `go build` and then manually move the resulting binary into your `$PATH`, or just run `go install` to install the executable file to `$GOPATH/bin`
4. You're good to go!

## Usage

Help with any prattl command

```zsh
prattl help
```

Prepare the python distribution at `$HOME/.prattl` required by prattl

```zsh
prattl prepare
```

Remove the python distribution built at `$HOME/.prattl` by prattl

```zsh
prattl clean
```

Transcribe provided audio by pathname(s), output transcription to stdout/json

```zsh
prattl transcribe <filepath/to/audio.mp3> <filepath/to/second_audio.mp3>
```

Commit message:

updating readme with installation instructions

README.md, after:

# prattl

CLI tool for transcription

## Features

- Transcribe audio and output to stdout/json (supports multiple file input)
- Helps with drafting captions for your editing workflow

### Prattl manages its own python distribution

When you run `prattl prepare` prattl installs a python distribution specific to your OS to your system, This means you don't need to manage Python dependencies or risk corrupting your existing environments.
`prattl clean` will completely remove this distribution.

### Transcribing

Under the hood, prattl is using [distil-whisper](https://huggingface.co/distil-whisper/distil-large-v3), which runs locally on your system. The better your GPU, the faster the transcription, if you do not have a GPU, it will use your CPU. To create a transcription, use the command:

```zsh
prattl transcribe <filepath/to/audio.mp3>
```

You can provide multiple file paths, and prattl will transcribe all of them as a single batch. This means the efficiency increases with more files!

Upon completion, the output will be a JSON object. For instance, if you run:

```zsh
prattl transcribe test1.mp3 test2.mp3 test3.mp3
```

the output will be:

```json
{
  "test1.mp3": "test1.mp3's transcription",
  "test2.mp3": "test2.mp3's transcription",
  "test3.mp3": "test3.mp3's transcription"
}
```

## OS/CPU Architecture Support

- windows/386
- windows/amd64
- darwin/arm64
- darwin/amd64
- linux-gnu/arm64
- linux-gnu/amd64

> [!NOTE]
> CUDA architecture GPUs can take advantage of GPU acceleration for transcription

<!-- > **_NOTE:_** CUDA architecture GPUs can take advantage of GPU acceleration for transcription -->

## Installation

### Prerequisites

[ffmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) installed and included in `$PATH`

### Get Started

1. [Download](https://github.com/prattlOrg/prattl/releases) (or [build](https://github.com/prattlOrg/prattl/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#build-locally)) binary to chosen location
2. Include the path of the binary in `$PATH`
3. Run `prattl prepare` to install necessary python dependencies to `$HOME/.prattl` directory
4. Prattl is ready to be used!

## Build Locally

### Prerequisites

[go](https://go.dev/) installed and included in `$PATH`

[ffmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) installed and included in `$PATH`

### Get Started

1. Clone repository
2. cd into the cloned repository
3. Either run `go build` and then manually move the resulting binary into your `$PATH`, or just run `go install` to install the executable file to `$GOPATH/bin`
4. Run `prattl prepare` to install necessary python dependencies to $HOME/.prattl directory
5. You're good to go!

## Usage

Help with any prattl command

```zsh
prattl help
```

Prepare the python distribution at `$HOME/.prattl` required by prattl

```zsh
prattl prepare
```

Remove the python distribution built at `$HOME/.prattl` by prattl

```zsh
prattl clean
```

Transcribe provided audio by pathname(s), output transcription to stdout/json

```zsh
prattl transcribe <filepath/to/audio.mp3> <filepath/to/second_audio.mp3>
```
